title: Outliers
date: 2013-07-18
category: Blog
tags: books, Outliers, Malcolm Gladwell  

Outliers by Malcolm Gladwell is the last book I read. I think this book
deserves a summary.

# Chapter one

It makes a difference where and when we grew up.

Biologists often talk about the "ecology" of an organism: the tallest oak in
the forest is the tallest not just because it grew from the hardiest acorn; it
is the tallest also because no other trees blocked its sunlight, the soil
around it was deep and rich, no rabbit chewed through its bark as a sapling,
and no lumberjack cut it down before it matured. We all know that successful
people come from hardy seeds. But do we know enough about the sunlight that
warmed them, the soil in which they put down the roots, and the rabbits and
lumberjacks they were lucky enough to avoid?

# Hockey players in Canada

In Canada the most of the successful hockey players born in: January, February,
and March.

The explanation for this is quite simple. It has nothing to do with astrology,
nor is there anything magical about the first three months of the year. It's
simply that in Canada the eligibility cutoff for age-class hockey is January 1.
A boy who turns ten on January 2, then, could be playing alongside someone who
doesn't turn ten until the end of the year.

# The three lessons of Joe Flom

Those three things -autonomy, complexity, and a connection between effort and
reward- are, most people agree, the three qualities that work has to have if it
is to be satisfying. It is not how much money we make that ultimately makes us
happy between nine and five. It's wheter our work fulfills us.

# My own history

As a kid I liked to play soccer. I was never the best player, but I neither was
the worst one. More or less each three years I had to be the new guy in the
school because my family was moving out. I remember in my school a skinny guy
who was a disaster with the ball. My family go out to Chiapas because my
grandfather inherited a house for my dad. Several years later I back to
Tabasco. My big surprise was that the clumsy and stubborn guy was the scorer.

Later in the college, I read a essay named `Teach yourself programming in ten
years`, I was so fortunate to read this material very early in my way. 

Today, I am not a hacker yet. I am a bad programmer, I feel I've been loosing
so much time.

